Add quickstart method (#252)
ESMValGroup/ESMValTool_Tutorial: _episodes/01-quickstart.md

---
title: "Quickstart guide"
teaching: 2
exercises: 8
questions:

- "What is the purpose of the quickstart guide?"
- "How do I load and check the ESMValTool environment?"
- "How do I configure ESMValTool?"
- "How do I run a recipe?"

objectives:

- "Understand the purpose of the quickstart guide"
- "Load and check the ESMValTool environment"
- "Configure ESMValTool"
- "Run a recipe"

keypoints:

- "The purpose of the quickstart guide is to enable a user of ESMValTool
  to run ESMValTool as quickly as possible"
- "Use the `module load` command to load the ESMValTool environment 

>   (see the installation guide for more details) and use `esmvaltool --help` to 

Reviewer: Does the "installation guide" here refer to the installation episode or the Read the Docs page on ESMValTool installation? Perhaps you could add a hyperlink to the guide.

Author: Changed it to installation episode and added link 1c3cfb5.

  check the ESMValTool environment"
- "Use `esmvaltool config get_config_user` to create the ESMValTool user 
  configuration file"
- "Use `esmvaltool run <recipe>.yml` to run a recipe"
---

> ## What is the purpose of the quickstart guide?
>
> - The purpose of the quickstart guide is to enable a user of ESMValTool to
>   run ESMValTool as quickly as possible by making the bare minimum number of 
>   changes.
{: .discussion}

> > ## How do I activate and test the ESMValTool environment?

Reviewer: Perhaps
```suggestion
> ## How do I load and check the ESMValTool environment?
```
to repeat what's in the objectives?

---
title: "Quickstart guide"
teaching: 1

> exercises: 10

Author: d252a44 - done

questions:

- "What is the purpose of the quickstart guide?"

> - "How do I activate and test the ESMValTool environment?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "How do I load ESMValTool and check the installation?"
```

Author: changed to load and check environment - 9f31e4f.

- "How do I configure ESMValTool?"
- "How do I run a recipe?"

objectives:

- "Understand the purpose of the quickstart guide"
- "Activate and test the ESMValTool environment"
- "Configure ESMValTool"
- "Run a recipe"

keypoints:

- "The purpose of the quickstart guide is to enable a user of ESMValTool
  to run ESMValTool as quickly as possible"
- "Use the `module load` command to activate the ESMValTool environment 
  (see the installation guide for more details) and use `esmvaltool -- --help` to 

>   test the ESMValTool environment"

Author: The modules documentation says the purpose of the module load command is to update the environment. See https://modules.readthedocs.io/en/latest/module.html. Since the documentation says environment, I think we should also use it to avoid confusion. If activate sounds too conda specific I could change it to "load the ESMValTool environment" as a compromise?

>   test the ESMValTool environment"

Author: 9f31e4f changed it.

>   episode for more details and use `esmvaltool --help` to check the ESMValTool 

Author: 9d67a5c done.

- "Use `esmvaltool config get_config_user` to create the ESMValTool user 
  configuration file"
- "Use `esmvaltool run <recipe>.yml` to run a recipe"
---
> ## Compatibility
>
> This quickstart guide is compatible with ESMValTool v2.6.0.
 {: .callout}

> 

Reviewer: I think it would be simpler not to have the compatibility note for this episode because the instructions work with any v2+ version and that would be a way to keep the quickstart guide general. Also, it would not be necessary to update this episode after each ESMValTool release. The situation is different for other episodes where instructions and log messages are version dependent.

> 

Author: Done 8ac17f7.

> ## What is the purpose of the quickstart guide?
>
> - The purpose of the quickstart guide is to enable a user of ESMValTool to
>   run ESMValTool as quickly as possible by making the bare minimum number of 
>   changes.
{: .discussion}

> ## How do I activate and test the ESMValTool environment?
>
> - For this quickstart guide, an assumption is made that ESMValTool has 
>   already been installed at the site where ESMValTool will be run. If this is
>   not the case, see the [Installation][lesson-installation] episode in this
>   tutorial.
> 

> > - Activate the ESMValTool environment by following the instructions at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Load ESMValTool by following the instructions at
```

Author: Load environment 9f31e4f.

>   [ESMValTool: Pre-installed versions on HPC clusters / other 
>   servers][activate-environment].
>
> - Test the ESMValTool environment by accessing the help for ESMValTool:
>
>     ~~~

> >     esmvaltool -- --help

Author: When I run `esmvaltool --help` this prints out: INFO: Showing help with the command 'esmvaltool -- --help'.
So I assumed that was the correct command as when I run it that info line goes away.

> >     esmvaltool -- --help

Reviewer: Indeed, this is the way help messages are expected by the Fire module, see https://google.github.io/python-fire/guide/. But since `esmvaltool --help` is used throughout the tutorial (e.g. [here](https://esmvalgroup.github.io/ESMValTool_Tutorial/02-installation/index.html)) and our docs (e.g. [here](https://docs.esmvaltool.org/en/latest/quickstart/installation.html)), I think it would be more consistent and user-friendly to only use that command.

> >     esmvaltool -- --help

Author: 430b245 done.

>     ~~~
>     {: .language-bash}
{: .challenge}

> ## How do I configure ESMValTool?
>
> - Create the ESMValTool user configuration file (the file is written to the 
>   default directory `~/.esmvaltool`):
>
>     ~~~
>     esmvaltool config get_config_user
>     ~~~
>     {: .language-bash}
> 
> - Edit the ESMValTool user configuration file using your favourite text editor 
>   to uncomment the lines relating to the site where ESMValTool will be run.
>
> - For more details about the ESMValTool user configuration file see the
>   [Configuration][lesson-configuration] episode in this tutorial.
{: .challenge}

> > ## How do I run a recipe?

Author: The command is already in the recipe episode and I was trying not to repeat too much.
